38 camera moves, one master class. So,
if you want your AI videos to look
cinematic, you need to understand camera
movement. So, today I'm covering all 38
techniques of cinematography, dolly
moves, lens manipulation, infinite scale
continuity, and much, much more. This is
the ultimate guide to prompting camera
movement in AI filmmaking. So, let's
start with the first category, and those
are the famous dolly moves. Basically,
it's called dolly because camera is
mounted on a wheeled platform, a dolly,
and moves forward or backwards through
space. So, first we have a slow dolly
in. So, let's showcase on this model.
So, here we have the subject, and the
camera will move towards her.
Very simple, like that.
Nice. Then, we have slow dolly out. And
while a prompting AI, you need to
separate the camera from subject and
environment, as I did here, because
otherwise AI video model can create
something completely different and
misunderstand you. So, slow dolly out.
Still, we have the same subject. Now,
the camera moves outwards slowly. Let's
see once again.
Nice. Then, we have fast dolly in,
so-called rush. So, camera moves rapidly
forward towards the subject's face,
creating a sudden sense of urgency, and
this is what we have.
So, you see fast move towards her face.
So, those were three examples of image
to video. I will use both image to
video, text to video, and many different
models here on magicour.ai
platform. Now, we have one interesting
movement, so it's called the vertigo
effect, so-called zolly, where camera
physically moves backward, while
simultaneously the lens zoom in. And
this looks like following.
So, you see, kind of a
weird feeling you have when looking at
that. So, this is zolly or vertigo
effect. So, let's move to the category
two of so-called infinite scale
continuity. First, we have extreme macro
zoom, so face, body to micro.
So, then we have cosmic hyper zoom. So,
space to street.
Now, let's move to the third category,
which is character-mounted framing. So,
basically specific relationship between
camera and the subject. The first one is
so-called over-the-shoulder OTS shot.
So, before starting, you see camera is
like mounted here and he is blurred out
and here we have the other subject. And
if we click play,
it looks as simple as that. But, you
know, this is used often in different
movies. So, like the camera is mounted
here. This specific example was created
in C dance. Then we have famous fish-eye
or peephole lens. So, extreme wide-angle
distortion and I will constantly change
the subject to make things interesting.
So, here the subject is this
weird-looking vampire.
And it looks like follows. Yeah, so
extreme fish-eye lens like looking
through the peephole. Category four is
obstacle and environmental interaction
and we will start from so-called reveal
from behind or wipe movement. So, this
is where the camera starts blocked by a
foreground object, a wall or pillar and
it slides laterally. Simple example
here. This is the wall and now the
subject is coming out here and the
camera follows. Very often used in many
different movies. Then also very often
used is so-called true shot, so
fly-through aperture shot. So, we have
this lady sitting in the office behind
the window. Now, the camera starts going
through the window
to her face and she is looking very very
excited to be on the 9-5 job. Category 5
is all about focus and lens
manipulation. Basically, the camera
stays kind of a fixed in one spot and
just rotates and the subject is static.
The first one is reveal from blur fade
in. So, the video starts completely out
of focus bokeh and the lens slowly pulls
focus until the subject is razor sharp.
And here you see the beginning frame
very blurry and then if you play
you see how it become sharper sharper
and then razor sharp while the
background is still blurred out.
Similarly, we have rack focus foreground
to background and the shot begins with
the subject in sharp focus and the
background blurry. Halfway through the
focus shifts and the subject becomes
blurry and the background becomes sharp.
And we can easily see that in this
example here. You see the start
background and the subject
and now
Yeah, you see now the subject is
completely blurry and the background is
sharp. So, this is also one of the nice
effects. Category 6 is all about the
tripod moves. First starting with tilt
up. As the name suggest, we know what
will happen here. Here we have the legs
revealed and now the camera
starts moving up towards the head to the
eyes of the subject and here we have the
superhero. As you guessed it probably,
now we have the tilt down. Mostly the
same subject.
Now
when we play, the camera moves down to
her feet. So, you know, you can use all
of those moves while you are trying to
create a short film or you're trying to
do any kind of AI filmmaking because
camera prompting is probably one of the
most important things. This is what we
call the slider moves, so lateral moves
where the camera moves sideways on a
track. So, we have camera truck left.
Here is our new subject.
And you see this is also something that
you notice in many movies, some kind of
those shots. Of course, we have also
lateral truck, right? The same subject,
just in different studio.
And yeah, we see how the camera is
moving nicely as we wanted to. Now,
moving on to the category eight, which
are orbital movements. So, basically the
camera circles around the subject. So,
we have orbit 180, so half circle,
changing the subject once again. Now, we
have this lady here, and this is the
move.
You see, very cinematic.
Oh, yeah. Since we have 180, then we
also need to have fast 360 orbit. This
is called the spin. The subject is in
the studio, and this is what is
happening.
You see,
360 spin. It didn't go 360 completely
because I choose only the duration of
the video of 5 seconds. Then we have
slow cinematic arc, where the camera
moves in a gentle wide curve around the
subject, revealing their side profile
slowly. And now again, we have a
different subject, and this is what is
actually happening.
Then one of the most important moves in
filmmaking are vertical movements, so
crane or pedestal. So, we have pedestal
down. Here is our new subject, and you
see how the crane is kind of a going
down, pedestal going to the pedestrian
mode. Yeah. Then we have pedestal up, so
the entire camera body physically rises
vertically straight up from waist level
to the eye level. So, you see, starting
from here, so from the waist, and then
going up slowly
to the eye level. Then we have crane up
or high angle reveal, changing the
subject, and you see, this already feels
like the camera is on crane
that is moving upwards.
Also very often used in filmmaking. And
of course, we also have crane down, also
called landing. She's looking madly at
us.
The crane is going slowly, down. Pretty
good. Already we arrived at category 10,
which are optical lens effects, and
those could look very similar to some of
the camera moves that we previously
showed. So, starting with a smooth
optical zoom in. So, we have our
astronaut here.
And okay, I mean, the video quality is
not out of this world because once
again, I just used the seed and slow
model, but nonetheless, the prompting
works. You see what is happening. Then
we have smooth optical zoom out. We have
this nice cartoonish vampire.
And yeah, slowly, slowly zooming out,
and background is becoming blurry. Also,
snap zoom or crash zoom is very
important. So, a sudden extremely rapid
zoom directly into the subject's eyes.
So, we have the guy with a nice hair
here.
And then I smile, and you see how the
camera zooms very quickly to the eyes.
Category 11 is used a lot in modern
times. Those are drone and aerial views.
So, we have drone flyover. Here are
guys.
And you see high altitude flyover over
them to this nice sea and the mountains.
Epic drone reveal is also popular. So,
pedestal plus tilt. This is what we got
here.
So, see, it's not a very mystical
reveal. Sometimes you need to prompt it
once again to to get the desired
results, but I just wanted to show you
the prompts and the videos. Also very
important is large scale drone orbit.
So, a massive sweeping aerial circle
around the subject showing the immense
scale of the environment and everything.
Those are always very nice. So,
everything looks beautiful and turning
around the subject. Let me know in the
comments below which of those you are
mostly using, and if you'd like the
prompts, of course. One not so popular
is top down. So, God's eye view, top
down drone shot where the camera is
positioned directly overhead pointing
straight down, slowly twisting. And this
is how does that look like.
So, you see, very very smooth movement
over the subject. Then we also have FPV
drone, aggressive so drone dive. For
this example, I have a simple cartoonish
like video here.
Yeah, looking nice. And then the dive
begins. Oh, yeah. The next category are
stylized and dynamic movements. So,
first one is so-called handheld
documentary style. So, here we have our
vampire, and you see camera kind of
moves like someone is holding the camera
in their hands. Also, whip pan, very
popular. The camera whips violently to
the left with extreme directional motion
blur. Our new subject, and the camera
you see, you noticed, very quick, and
the motion blur there happening in the
background.
Just a slight movement of the camera.
And then the famous Dutch angle or roll,
where the camera is permanently tilted
sideways on its Z axis. In movies, in
many cases, they use that for the
dramatic effect and everything. You see,
the camera is constantly kind of tilted
while he's doing something. I don't know
what. We have arrived at the 13th
category, which are based on the subject
tracking, so requires subject motion.
First one is leading shot or backward
tracking, where the subject walks
forward toward the camera at a steady
pace, and the camera moves backward at
the exact same speed. So, here is our
guy, and he starts walking toward the
camera, but camera also moves at the
same speed, or almost the same speed as
he is. The something opposite to that is
called following shot or forward
tracking, where the subject walks away
from the camera, and the camera follows
behind them. And he's walking nicely,
and the camera is walking at the exact
same speed as he is. Side tracking or
the parallel is used a lot. So, the
subject walks from the left to right,
for example, and the camera tracks
alongside him. So, we have this nice
lady in the city. She's walking and the
camera tracks naturally from her
profile. This is very nice camera move
always used. And we also have POV walk,
so first-person walk where the camera
moves forward with a slight bobbing and
swaying motion of a person walking
approaching the subject. For those kind
of things, depending on the video model,
sometimes it'll be successful, sometimes
not. You can need to prompt it again and
again. But this looks kind of fair.
Yeah. Like someone is POV walking toward
the subject. And there you have it, 38
camera moves and techniques you can use
in AI filmmaking. Not every generation
will be perfect and that's completely
normal. AI filmmaking is about
iteration. You test, regenerate, refine,
and that's how cinematic results are
made. Thanks for watching. If this
helped you, hit like and subscribe for
more AI filmmaking guides. And I'll see
you in the next one.